README.md, before:

# [Unike267](https://github.com/Unike267) 2938

- **University**: UPV/EHU.
- **Doctoral Programme**: Engineering Physics.
- **Department**: Electronics Technology.
- **Group**: Digital Electronics Design Group, GDED (GIU21/007).
- **PhD Student**: Unai Sainz-Estebanez.

---

## SEE 

https://github.com/ghdl/ghdl/issues/2938

## Ideas:

- Parser:
  - **REMEBER:** do not reinvent the wheel!
    - See [parser-generator](https://github.com/topics/parser-generator), such as:
      - [antlr4](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4)
  - **Choosing the right language is a hard decision**
    - I only know how to speak VHDL, C, and a bit of Bash, so which language should I use?
      - Maybe C?
      - In Unai's words, "You have to use each language for its intended purpose." In this case, something like Python, Go, or TypeScript might be better.
      - However, I am more familiar with CNC programming than with these languages.
      - Actually, C++ might be a good choice. 🤔
- CI:
  - Instead of using a specific container image, build the container directly in CI.
  - Use the `.github/ghdl.containerfile` file to build an image from the latest commit. The build command:
    - `podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:commit-hash --target ghdl`
  - Then, run the CI with this image, something like:

```yml
  run_HDL_code-blocks_with_ghdl_in_latest_commit_version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: '🧰 Checkout'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          submodules: recursive
          fetch-depth: 0

      - name: 'Build GHDL from latest commit and run code-blocks'
        run: |
          git clone https://github.com/ghdl/ghdl
          cd ghdl
          commit=$(git describe --always)
          cd ..
          rm -rf ghdl
          podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:$commit --target ghdl
          podman run --rm -tv $(pwd):/wrk:Z -w /wrk ghdl:$commit code-blocks-run.sh
```

  - Maybe the issue could include a field to specify the GHDL commit to run, inserting this info as an environment variable..

```yml
  run_HDL_code-blocks_with_ghdl_in_specific_commit_version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    env:
      commit: $commit¿?

    steps:
      - name: '🧰 Checkout'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          submodules: recursive
          fetch-depth: 0

      - name: 'Build GHDL from custom commit and run code-blocks'
        run: |
          sed -i '44s|^|\n|' .github/ghdl.containerfile
          sed -i '44s|^| \&\& git checkout '"$commit"' \\|' .github/ghdl.containerfile
          podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:$commit --target ghdl
          podman run --rm -tv $(pwd):/wrk:Z -w /wrk ghdl:$commit code-blocks-run.sh 
```


## References

- GH CLI:
  - [gh_issue_view](https://cli.github.com/manual/gh_issue_view)
- Markdown parsers:
  - [marked](https://github.com/markedjs/marked)
  - [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) 
  - [markdown-it.github.io](https://markdown-it.github.io/)
- JSON VHDL PARSER:
  - [Paebbels/JSON-for-VHDL](https://github.com/Paebbels/JSON-for-VHDL)
- Source of this idea:
  - [umarcor/issue-runner](https://github.com/umarcor/issue-runner)

Commit message:

Add how to acces to the issue [initial idea]

README.md, after:

# [Unike267](https://github.com/Unike267) 2938

- **University**: UPV/EHU.
- **Doctoral Programme**: Engineering Physics.
- **Department**: Electronics Technology.
- **Group**: Digital Electronics Design Group, GDED (GIU21/007).
- **PhD Student**: Unai Sainz-Estebanez.

---

## SEE 

https://github.com/ghdl/ghdl/issues/2938

## Ideas:

- Parser:
  - **REMEBER:** do not reinvent the wheel!
    - See [parser-generator](https://github.com/topics/parser-generator), such as:
      - [antlr4](https://github.com/antlr/antlr4)
  - **Choosing the right language is a hard decision**
    - I only know how to speak VHDL, C, and a bit of Bash, so which language should I use?
      - Maybe C?
      - In Unai's words, "You have to use each language for its intended purpose." In this case, something like Python, Go, or TypeScript might be better.
      - However, I am more familiar with CNC programming than with these languages.
      - Actually, C++ might be a good choice. 🤔
- CI:
  - Instead of using a specific container image, build the container directly in CI.
  - Use the `.github/ghdl.containerfile` file to build an image from the latest commit. The build command:
    - `podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:commit-hash --target ghdl`
  - Then, run the CI with this image, something like:

```yml
  run_HDL_code-blocks_with_ghdl_in_latest_commit_version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
      - name: '🧰 Checkout'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          submodules: recursive
          fetch-depth: 0

      - name: 'Build GHDL from latest commit and run code-blocks'
        run: |
          git clone https://github.com/ghdl/ghdl
          cd ghdl
          commit=$(git describe --always)
          cd ..
          rm -rf ghdl
          podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:$commit --target ghdl
          podman run --rm -tv $(pwd):/wrk:Z -w /wrk ghdl:$commit code-blocks-run.sh
```

  - Maybe the issue could include a field to specify the GHDL commit to run, inserting this info as an environment variable..

```yml
  run_HDL_code-blocks_with_ghdl_in_specific_commit_version:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    env:
      commit: $commit¿?

    steps:
      - name: '🧰 Checkout'
        uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          submodules: recursive
          fetch-depth: 0

      - name: 'Build GHDL from custom commit and run code-blocks'
        run: |
          sed -i '44s|^|\n|' .github/ghdl.containerfile
          sed -i '44s|^| \&\& git checkout '"$commit"' \\|' .github/ghdl.containerfile
          podman build -f  .github/ghdl.containerfile -t ghdl:$commit --target ghdl
          podman run --rm -tv $(pwd):/wrk:Z -w /wrk ghdl:$commit code-blocks-run.sh 
```
  - Access to the issue main comment/other comments through the GH CLI. 
    - See job: `fetch_issue`

## References

- GH CLI:
  - [gh_issue_view](https://cli.github.com/manual/gh_issue_view)
- Markdown parsers:
  - [marked](https://github.com/markedjs/marked)
  - [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) 
  - [markdown-it.github.io](https://markdown-it.github.io/)
- JSON VHDL PARSER:
  - [Paebbels/JSON-for-VHDL](https://github.com/Paebbels/JSON-for-VHDL)
- Source of this idea:
  - [umarcor/issue-runner](https://github.com/umarcor/issue-runner)
